
REVISION

  $Id: README,v 1.6 2017/04/12 18:21:45 klm Exp $

OVERVIEW

  PathWell (Password Topology Histogram Wear-Leveling) is a new
  approach to measuring and enforcing password complexity, focusing on
  the uniqueness of each user password's topology.

  A password's "topology" is its "shape", such as "Uppercase letter,
  followed by several lowercase letters, several numbers, and then a
  special character".  When many users are required to create
  passwords fitting some conventional strength rules (such as minimum
  length, minimum number of character sets), they tend to gravitate
  towards common topologies.  Password cracking tools incorporate this
  (called "masks" in Hashcat, for example).  A set of password
  hashes with a slow (difficult) cipher, or a set of very long
  (14-character or more) passwords may be infeasible to blindly crack,
  but by focusing on only 1-5 most popular topologies, an attacker
  might crack 5-10% or more of an enterprise's user passwords in hours
  or days instead of months or years of effort.

  Password crackers would have a far lower success rate if topologies
  could not be reused by multiple users.  PathWell provides tools to
  measure the bias in a user population (how overused the most popular
  topologies are), allow an administrator to disallow the most
  universally common topologies (blacklists), and/or disallow any user
  from re-using a topology that is in use by other users of the same
  system (wear-level enforcement).

DOCUMENTATION

  General documentation is located in the doc directory; they will
  be installed as standard man pages during software installation.  See
  the README.INSTALL file for instructions on how to build, test, and
  install the library, and the README.PAM file for instructions on how
  to configure and enable the pam_pathwell.so PAM module on several
  different target Linux distributions.

LICENSE

  The terms and conditions under which this software is released are
  set forth in README.LICENSE.

